CHAPTERS III AND IV OF ROMANS
This is a LibriVox recording.
All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org.
The Epistle of Paul to the Romans, King James Version, Chapter 3
What advantage then hath the Jew, or what profit is there of circumcision,
much every way chiefly because that unto them were committed the oracles of God?
For what if some did not believe, shall their unbelief make the faith of God without effect?
God forbid, yea, let God be true, but every man a liar,
as it is written, that thou mightest be justified in thy sayings,
and mightest overcome when thou art judged.
But if our unrighteousness commend the righteousness of God,
What shall we say? Is God unrighteous, who taketh vengeance? I speak as a man.
God forbid, for then how shall God judge the world?
For if the truth of God hath more abounded through my lie unto his glory,
why yet am I also judged as a sinner?
And not rather, as we be slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say,
Let us do evil, that good may come. Whose damnation is just? What then?
Are we better than they? No, and no wise.
For we have before proved both Jews and Gentiles, that they are all under sin.
As it is written, there is none righteous, no, not one.
There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God.
They are all gone out of the way, they are together, become unprofitable.
There is none that doeth good, no, not one.
Their throat is an open sepulcher, with their tongues they have used to see
The poison of asps is under their lips.
Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness?
Their feet are swift to shed blood.
Destruction and misery are in their ways.
And the way of peace have they not known.
There is no fear of God before their eyes.
Now, we know that what things soever the law saith,
It saith to them who are under the law,
That every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God.
Therefore, by the deeds of the law, there shall no flesh be justified in his sight.
For by the law is the knowledge of sin.
But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested,
Being witnessed by the law and the prophets.
Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ,
Unto all and upon all them that believe, for there is no difference.
For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God,
Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,
Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood,
To declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past through the forbearance of God.
To declare, I say, at this time his righteousness,
That he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus.
Where is boasting then? It is excluded.
By what law? Of works? Nay, but by the law of faith.
Therefore, we conclude that a man is justified
By faith without the deeds of the law.
Is he the God of the Jews only?
Is he not also of the Gentiles?
Yes, of the Gentiles also.
Seeing it is one God which shall justify the circumcision by faith
And the uncircumcision through faith.
Do we then make void the law through faith?
God forbid, yea, we establish the law.
Chapter 4
What shall we say then, that Abraham our father as pertaining to the flesh,
Have found?
For if Abraham were justified by works,
He hath whereof to glory, but not before God.
For what sayeth the scripture?
Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness.
Now, to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt.
But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly,
His faith is counted for righteousness,
Even as David also describeth the blessedness of the man
Unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works.
Saying, blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven and whose sins are covered.
Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin.
Cometh this blessedness then upon the circumcision only,
Or upon the uncircumcision also?
For we say that faith was reckoned to Abraham for righteousness.
How was it then reckoned when he was in circumcision or in uncircumcision?
Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
And he received the sign of circumcision,
A seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had yet being uncircumcised.
That he might be the father of all them that believe,
Though they be not circumcised.
That righteousness might be imputed unto them also.
And the father of circumcision to them who are not of the circumcision only,
But who also walked in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham,
Which he had being yet uncircumcised.
For the promise that he should be the heir of the world
Was not to Abraham or to his seed through the law,
But through the righteousness of faith.
For if they which are of the law be heirs,
Faith is made void and the promise made of non-effect.
Because the law worketh wrath,
For where no law is, there is no transgression.
Therefore it is of faith that it might be by grace to the end.
The promise might be sure to all the seed,
Not to that only which is of the law,
But to that also which is of the faith of Abraham,
Who is the father of us all.
As it is written,
I have made thee a father of many nations,
Before him whom he believed,
Even God who quickeneth the dead
And calleth those things which be not as though they were,
Who against hope believed in hope
That he might become the father of many nations
According to that which was spoken,
So shall thy seed be.
And being not weak in faith,
He considered not his own body now dead,
When he was about an hundred years old,
Neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb.
He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief,
But was strong in faith,
Giving glory to God,
And being fully persuaded that what he had promised
He was able also to perform.
And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness.
Now, it was not written for his sake alone
That it was imputed to him,
But for us also,
To whom it shall be imputed if we believe on him
That raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead,
Who was delivered for our offenses,
And was raised again for our justification.
Thanks for watching!